Readme.md, before:

Zeek test script for CVE-2020-0601
==================================

This script might be able to detect exploit attempts for CVE-2020-0601. It performs a
simple check to see if a known curve is used in a certificate - if this is not the
case a notice is raised.

Example notice in notice.log:

1579043477.791522	CHhAvVGS1DHFjwGM9	192.241.209.49	46110	192.241.202.21	4433	F37z6n1B8zn1fZjpj	application/x-x509-user-cert	192.241.202.21:4433/tcp	tcp	CVE_2020_0601::Unknown_X509_Curve	ECC certificate with unknown curve; potential CVE-2020-0601 exploit attempt	-	192.241.209.49	192.241.202.21	4433	-	-	Notice::ACTION_LOG	3600.000000	-	-	-	-	-

Important note:
--------------

This script requires an OpenSSL installation that automatically converts
explicit curves to names while the certificate is parsed. Many versions of OpenSSL
shipped by different Linux distributions do not seem to do that; I am currently a bit
unsure of why this is the case.

Using OpenSSL versions with differing behavior will lead to a higher amount of
false positives. The tests for this package will check OpenSSL behavior during
installation; if the "explicit.bro" tests fails your version of OpenSSL does not
behave as required.

In this case, the script will alert on all certificates that have explicit curve
definitions too; these should be very very rare, but are not per se a problem.

There is a second version of this plugin available at https://github.com/0xxon/cve-2020-0601-plugin.
The second version uses OpenSSL primitives to directly check a certificate curve.
However, the plugin version requires OpenSSL 1.1.x - and requires C++ code to be built
and loaded in your Zeek installation.

The advantages of the plugin version at https://github.com/0xxon/cve-2020-0601-plugin are
a higher accuracy - with more specific notices that give more information about an exploit
attempt that was found. The disadvantages mostly are higher installation friction.

Disclaimer:
-----------

Since I do not have access to exploit traffic while writing this package, this package
was made with self-created traffic attempting to re-create my understanding of what
an attack should look like. It is possible (but unlikely) that a real attack will not
be caught by this.

Commit message:

Add capability to log suspicious certificates.
Thank you for the idea, Justin.

Readme.md, after:

Zeek test script for CVE-2020-0601
==================================

This script can detect exploit attempts for CVE-2020-0601. It performs a
simple check to see if a known curve is used in a certificate - if this is not the
case a notice is raised.

Example notice in notice.log:

1579043477.791522	CHhAvVGS1DHFjwGM9	192.241.209.49	46110	192.241.202.21	4433	F37z6n1B8zn1fZjpj	application/x-x509-user-cert	192.241.202.21:4433/tcp	tcp	CVE_2020_0601::Unknown_X509_Curve	ECC certificate with unknown curve; potential CVE-2020-0601 exploit attempt	-	192.241.209.49	192.241.202.21	4433	-	-	Notice::ACTION_LOG	3600.000000	-	-	-	-	-

To log suspicious certificates please use

  redef CVE_2020_0601::log_certs = T;

in your local.bro/local.zeek to turn on extraction. Once this is turned on, suspicoous
certificates will be logged to a new cve-2020-0601-certs.log file.

Important note:
--------------

This script requires an OpenSSL installation that automatically converts
explicit curves to names while the certificate is parsed. Many versions of OpenSSL
shipped by different Linux distributions do not seem to do that; I am currently a bit
unsure of why this is the case.

Using OpenSSL versions with differing behavior will lead to a higher amount of
false positives. The tests for this package will check OpenSSL behavior during
installation; if the "explicit.bro" tests fails your version of OpenSSL does not
behave as required.

In this case, the script will alert on all certificates that have explicit curve
definitions too; these should be very very rare, but are not per se a problem.

There is a second version of this plugin available at https://github.com/0xxon/cve-2020-0601-plugin.
The second version uses OpenSSL primitives to directly check a certificate curve.
However, the plugin version requires OpenSSL 1.1.x - and requires C++ code to be built
and loaded in your Zeek installation.

The advantages of the plugin version at https://github.com/0xxon/cve-2020-0601-plugin are
a higher accuracy - with more specific notices that give more information about an exploit
attempt that was found. The disadvantages mostly are higher installation friction.

Disclaimer:
-----------

Since I do not have access to exploit traffic while writing this package, this package
was made with self-created traffic attempting to re-create my understanding of what
an attack should look like. It is possible (but unlikely) that a real attack will not
be caught by this.
